---
title: Introduction
description: A brief introduction to the fundamentals of Streamer.bot
---

# Introduction
Welcome to Streamer.bot, a program that allows you to interactively control your stream!

At first, it might seem a bit overwhelming, but after learning the fundamentals, it's easier than you might expect.

There are four fundamentals: Actions, Sub-Actions, Variables, and Events. In this guide, we'll walk you through each of these concepts step-by-step.

## Actions
Actions are the backbone of Streamer.bot, as they store all the data needed to achieve your goals.

An action consists of multiple [Sub-Actions](#sub-actions) that are linked to [Events](#events).

To understand how actions work, it's important to first understand the other fundamentals.

## Sub-Actions
Sub-Actions are a crucial part of Streamer.bot, allowing you to perform a wide range of actions, such as sending messages to Discord, changing the color of your lights, or playing text-to-speech audio.

**If you can think of it, chances are you can do it with Sub-Actions.**

> If you have any suggestions for new Sub-Actions, you can submit them on the [Streamer.bot Ideas & Suggestions](https://ideas.streamer.bot) site.

## Variables
To make your Sub-Actions interactive you need Variables. Variables work with the name of the variable between percentage symbols e.g. `%variable%`. This variables are findable on this wiki. Variables primarily come from Events and Sub-Actions. You have Sub-Actions like [Get Random Number](/Sub-Actions/Get-Random-Number) where you get a random number between two values and it outputs it as a variable, in this case: `%randomNumber%`. But the majority of the variables comes from [Events](#events). Note: variables are case sensitive, so `%User%` won't work if the variable actually is `%user%`.

### Global Variables
Global Variables are for using variables in multiple actions with no time limit, the no time limit is when `Persisted` is turned on in Set Global Variable (this is by default) if you tick it of it resets when restarting Streamer.bot.
Global Variable example: You want to save your game in a global variable, you do this on the `Stream Update` event and do this below (this is how it should look in the Sub-Actions list, not in the Sub-Action itself):
```csharp
Set global "gameNameGlobal" to the value of %gameName%
Get global "gameNameGlobal" to "gameName", with default value of "No game available"
```
Now when using the Set Global Variable in the action linked to the `Stream Update` event. You can make a action with the Get Global Variable and use `%gameName%` as variable without it having to be linked to the event.

### Action History
The action history is the place where you can see the variables that your action has generated. This tab is located at `Action Queues` `-->` `Action History`. When an action runs you can see it in the list there, if you want to exclude some actions e.g. a chat message event action, go to the actions tab and right click on the action and click on `Exclude from Hisory`. Back at the Action History you can right click on every item in the list and click on the `Inspect Variables After Run (#)` this will open a table displaying all the variables that you can use in the action.

## Events
Events come from Integrations, Broadcasters, Platforms, etc. e.g. Commands, Subscription, Heart Rate Event, Poll Updated, etc. when these trigger it will produce variables what you can find on the wiki, these variables are useable in Sub-Actions.