---
version: 0.2.0
---

# Streamer.bot v0.2.0 (Upcoming)
*Upcoming changes in the next release!*

What's this, an actual version bump, or at least a minor one!

This changelog is still a work in progress, there is a lot of data I need to sort through, as some has already been included in past releases.

## New Features
::changelog-list{type=new}
* Add new sub-action to set action queue's blocking state
* Add new sub-action to set a Twitch Reward's background color
* Add C# method to update a Twitch Reward's background color
* Add new sub-action Twitch Reply To Message
* Add new C# Method, TwitchReplyToMessage
* Actions will now show red when disabled
* [Triggers](#triggers)!
* New C# methods for Triggers
* [VTube Studio](#vtube-studio) Integration!
* A new [Global Variables Viewer](#global-variables-viewer)
* New [Inline Chat Window](#inline-chat-window) feature, see Twitch and YouTube chat within **Streamer.bot**
* Add list of users gifted a sub in the Twitch Gift Bomb event
* [CrowdControl 2.0](#crowdcontrol-20) Integration!
::

## Updates
::changelog-list{type=update}
* Update how events are handled internally
* Tweaks to LiteDB handling
* Tweaks to Credits for Twitch, should add presence for any event now
* Add some more logging during shutdown
* Change how shutdown works from an update
* Add url check to Websocket Client creation
::

## Fixes
::changelog-list{type=fix}
* Misc fixes and tweaks throughout
* Fix 7TV emotes not being parsed
* Fixes to shutdown routines
* Fix some threads not being stopped properly
* Fix maximum for Twitch Sub-counter Rollover, it's now 32,767 (from 100)
* Fix data validation in Twitch Prediction dialog
* Fix data validation in Twitch Poll dialog
* Fix Twitch EventSub related issues, potential duplicate events
* Fix Handling of DoActions across various methods to parse properly for C#
::

## Details
### Triggers
Gone are the days of having to move through multiple tabs to assign an action to an event.

Now, you assign a Trigger directly to one or more actions that act on events.

There are **130** different Triggers available in **Streamer.bot**, and there will probably be more!

When upgrading from **0.1.23**, all your events that you have actions associated with, will be upgraded automatically to Triggers.

#### Custom Triggers
Not only are there Triggers for fixed events within **Streamer.bot**, but you'll also be able to create your own named triggers within the UI as will as in C#.  Both of which can be triggered within C#.

If you use the Custom trigger within the UI, just enter any name, and you can trigger it within C# using the following:
```cs
// the name, useArgs is a boolean that if true, will forward the args of the action to the trigger
CPH.TriggerEvent("whatever you named it in the UI");
```
To register a custom trigger in C#, that will show up in the Custom menu, use the following:
```cs
// Name, event name, and categories it sits in
CPH.RegisterCustomTrigger("Something", "mine_something", new[] { "Stuff" });
```
And to trigger it within your code:
```cs
CPH.TriggerCodeEvent("mine_something");
```
Typically you would register a trigger in the `void Init()`method, and have it compile at start

### VTube Studio
A brand new integration is coming to **v0.2.0**, and that's VTube Studio!

You'll be able to react to some events from VTube Studio, as well as 5 new sub-actions to interact with it.

There are also a handful of C# methods, for those that prefer to write C# code for there actions.

### CrowdControl 2.0
Yes, that's right, yet another integration, and this time it's CrowdControl 2.0!

With this integration, you can now react to 8 different events from CrowdControl.

Since CrowdControl themselves are still developing this version, there are things within **Streamer.bot** that can change as well, and new features are still pending.

#### New Sub-actions
The following sub-actions are available for use with VTube Studio
* Load Model
* Load Model by Name
* Trigger Hotkey
* Trigger Hotkey by Name
* Move Model

### Global Variables Viewer
Ever wonder what global variables are floating around **Streamer.bot**? will, now you can see them, and see them update in realtime witha  Global Variable viewer.

In addition to seeing them, you can add new ones, edit existing ones, and even outright delete them.

### Inline Chat Window
Open up a window, and view your Twitch, and/or YouTube chat, right within **Streamer.bot** itself!

### New C# Methods
```cs
bool UpdateRewardBackgroundColor(string rewardId, string backgroundColor);
bool UpdateReward(string rewardId, string title = null, string prompt = null, int? cost = null, string backroundColor = null);
```
```cs
void TwitchReplyToMessage(string message, string replyId, bool bot = true);
```
```cs
bool VTubeStudioLoadModelById(string modelId);
bool VTubeStudioLoadModelByName(string modelName);
bool VTubeStudioTriggerHotkeyById(string hotkeyId);
bool VTubeStudioTriggerHotkeyByName(string hotkeyName);
bool VTubeStudioMoveModel(double seconds, bool relative, double? posX = null, double? posY = null, double? rotation = null, double? size = null);
```

### New Triggers
There are a couple new Triggers, that previously did not exist as events within **Streamer.bot**

#### Process Started
Trigger an action when a process has started on your pc

#### Process Stopped
Trigger an action when a process has stopped on your pc